# `surveilr` v1.4.2 Release Notes 🎉

---

## 🚀 What's New

### 1. Utilizing Custom Extensions with **`surveilr`**
Loading extensions is now straightforward with the `--sqlite-dyn-extn` flag. As long as your extensions are installed via [`sqlpkg`](https://sqlpkg.org/), `surveilr` will automatically detect the default location of `sqlpkg` and all installed extensions. Simply install the extension using `sqlpkg`. To specify a custom path for `sqlpkg`, use the `--sql-pkg-home` argument with a directory containing the extensions, regardless of depth, and `surveilr` will locate them. Additionally, the `SURVEILR_SQLITE_DYN_EXTNS` environment variable has been introduced to designate an extension path instead of using `--sqlite-dyn-extn`.
**Note**: Using `--sqlite-dyn-extn` won't prevent `surveilr` from loading extensions from `sqlpkg`'s default directory. To disable loading from `sqlpkg`, use the `--no-sqlpkg` flag.

Here's a detailed example of using `surveilr shell` and `surveilr orchestrate` with dynamic extensions.
**Using `sqlpkg` defaults**
- Download the [`sqlpkg` CLI](https://github.com/nalgeon/sqlpkg-cli?tab=readme-ov-file#download-and-install-preferred-method).
- Download the [text extension](https://sqlpkg.org/?q=text), which offers various text manipulation functions: `sqlpkg install nalgeon/sqlean`
- Run the following command:
  ```bash
  surveilr shell --cmd "select text_substring('hello world', 7, 5) AS result" # surveilr loads all extensions from the .sqlpkg default directory
  ```

**Including an additional extension with `sqlpkg`**
Combine `--sqlite-dyn-extn` with `surveilr`'s ability to load extensions from `sqlpkg`
- Add the `path` extension to `sqlpkg`'s installed extensions: `sqlpkg install asg017/path`
- Execute:
  ```bash
  surveilr shell --cmd "SELECT
        text_substring('hello world', 7, 5) AS substring_result,
        math_sqrt(9) AS sqrt_result,
        path_parts.type,
        path_parts.part 
    FROM 
        (SELECT * FROM path_parts('/usr/bin/sqlite3')) AS path_parts;
    " --sqlite-dyn-extn .extensions/math.so
  ```

**Specify a Custom Directory to Load Extensions From**
A `--sqlpkg-home` flag has been introduced to specify a custom path for extensions. They do not need to be installed by `sqlpkg` to be used. `surveilr` will navigate the specified folder and load all compatible extensions for the operating system—`.so` for Linux, `.dll` for Windows, and `.dylib` for macOS. (If you installed with `sqlpkg`, you don't need to know the file type).
```bash
surveilr shell --cmd "SELECT text_substring('hello world', 7, 5) AS substring_result, math_sqrt(9) AS sqrt_result" --sqlpkg-home ./src/resource_serde/src/functions/extensions/
```

### 2. Upgraded SQLPage
SQLPage has been updated to version 0.31.0, aligning with the latest releases.