# `surveilr` v1.5.5 Release Notes 🎉

---

## 🚀 What's New

### Virtual Table: `surveilr_function_docs`

**Description**  
The `surveilr_function_docs` virtual table offers a structured method to query metadata about `surveilr` SQLite functions registered in the system.

**Columns**  
- `name` (`TEXT`): The function's name.
- `description` (`TEXT`): A concise description of the function's purpose.
- `parameters` (`JSON`): A JSON object detailing the function's parameters, including:
  - `name`: The name of the parameter.
  - `data_type`: The parameter's expected data type.
  - `description`: An explanation of the parameter's role.
- `return_type` (`TEXT`): The function's return type.
- `introduced_in_version` (`TEXT`): The version in which the function was first introduced.

**Use Cases**  
- Utilized in the Web UI for generating documentation on the functions.

---

### Virtual Table: `surveilr_udi_dal_fs`

**Description**  
The `surveilr_udi_dal_fs` virtual table acts as an abstraction layer for interacting with the file system. It enables users to list and examine file metadata in a structured, SQL-friendly manner. This table can list files and their metadata recursively from a specified path.

**Columns**  
- `name` (`TEXT`): The file's name.
- `path` (`TEXT`): The complete file path.
- `last_modified` (`TEXT`): The file's last modified timestamp, when available.
- `content` (`BLOB`): The content of the file (optional).
- `size` (`INTEGER`): The size of the file in bytes.
- `content_type` (`TEXT`): The MIME type of the file or an inferred content type (e.g., based on the extension).
- `digest` (`TEXT`): The MD5 digest of the file, if available.
- `arg_path` (`TEXT`, hidden): The base path for querying files, specified in the `filter` method.

**Key Features**  
- Lists files recursively from a specified directory.
- Facilitates metadata extraction, such as file size, last modified timestamp, and MDhash).

---

### Virtual Table: `surveilr_udi_dal_s3`

**Description**  
The `surveilr_udi_dal_s3` virtual table is an abstraction layer that interacts with the S3 bucket in a given region. It allows listing and inspecting file metadata in a structured, SQL-accessible way.

**Columns**  
- `name` (`TEXT`): The name of the file.
- `path` (`TEXT`): The full path to the file.
- `last_modified` (`TEXT`): The last modified timestamp of the file, if available.
- `content` (`BLOB`): The file's content (optional).
- `size` (`INTEGER`): The file size in bytes.
- `content_type` (`TEXT`): The file's MIME type or inferred content type (e.g., based on the extension).
- `digest` (`TEXT`): The file's MD5 digest, if available.
- `arg_path` (`TEXT`, hidden): The base path to query files from, specified in the `filter` method.

**Key Features**  
- Supports metadata extraction (e.g., file size, last modified timestamp, MD5 hash).

---

## Example Queries

### Querying Function Documentation
```sql
SELECT * FROM surveilr_function_docs WHERE introduced_in_version = '1.0.0';
```