---
title: Releases
description: Release notes for Resource Surveillance v0.10.2
sidebar:
  label: v0.10.2
---

Release notes for Resource Surveillance (`surveilr`) 0.10.2

## What's New
### 1. Orchestrate with Script Storage
 - **Command**: `surveilr orchestrate  -n "v&v" -s abc.sql --save-script`
 - **Description**: This command now stores everything from the command line into the orchestration session. If the `--save-script` flag is set to true, which is the default, the script content is stored in the elaboration field for reference.

### 2. Web UI Launch and Auto-Open
  - **Command**: `surveilr web-ui -p 9000`
  - **Description**: The `sqlpage` subcommand has been changed to `webui`. You can now launch the web interface using the command `surveilr web-ui`, which provides the address of the webpage. Additionally, using the `--open` flag will automatically open the webpage in the default browser. Read more [here](/surveilr/reference/cli/commands#surveilr-web-ui).

### 3. Handling Streaming Content from STDIN
  - **Functionality**: If streaming content is received through STDIN, it is treated as the first script to be executed, followed by any subsequent scripts provided via the `--sql` flag.
  - Example: `curl https://abc.com/my.sql | surveilr orchestrate -n "v&v" -s abc.sql`

### 4. Execute Scripts from Remote Filesystem via HTTPs
  - **Command**: `surveilr orchestrate -n "v&v" --sql https://github.com/abc/xyz/xyz.sql`
  - **Description**: This command will execute a script stored in a remote filesystem via HTTPs. This feature ensures that remote scripts are fetched and executed seamlessly.
  - Example: `surveilr orchestrate -n "v&v" --sql https://github.com/abc/xyz/xyz.sql`

**Combined Example of passing SQL scripts to `surveilr` orchestration**
```bash
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/opsfolio/resource-surveillance-commons/main/pattern/privacy/anonymize-sample/de-identification/deidentification.sql \
 | surveilr orchestrate -n "v&v" \
-s ./support/regression-tests/orchestrate.sql -s ./support/regression-tests/deidentify.sql \
 -s "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/opsfolio/resource-surveillance-commons/main/pattern/privacy/anonymize-sample/stateless-privacy-surveilr.sql"
```
  - **Description**: This command pipes a script from a remote URL into the surveilr orchestrate command and specifies additional scripts to be executed from both local and remote sources. The initial script from STDIN is executed first, followed by the scripts provided via the --sql flag.

## Fixes
- `surveilr_device_id`: This function was previously named `device_id`, but now the word `surveilr_` has been added as a prefix to denote that it is a `surveilr` specific function.

## Assets
Please find the release [here](https://github.com/opsfolio/releases.opsfolio.com/releases/tag/0.10.2).