---
title: Releases
description: Release notes for Resource Surveillance v0.10.1
sidebar:
  label: v0.10.1
---

Release notes for Resource Surveillance (`surveilr`) 0.10.1

## What's New

1. **Orchestration Command Execution**
    - Feature: `surveilr orchestrate -n "v&v" -s xyz.sql`
        - Description: Execute an xyz.sql script stored in a VFS filesystem locally. This feature supports orchestrating SQL scripts for validation and verification (v&v) purposes.
         - Usage: `surveilr orchestrate -n "v&v" -s xyz.sql`

2. **Script Execution Order**
   The orchestration service now accepts multiple SQL files and guarantees they are executed in the specified order, ensuring the correct sequence of operations.

3. **SQLite Orchestration Helper Functions**
    - `surveilr_orchestration_context_session_id`
        - Description: Adds an SQLite function to return the current active session_id.
        - Usage:` SELECT surveilr_orchestration_context_session_id();`
    - `device_id`
       - Description: Adds an SQLite function to return the device_id of the host device.
        - Usage: SELECT device_id();
    - `surveilr_version`
       - Description: Retrieves the current surveilr version.
       - Usage: SELECT surveilr_version();
    - `surveilr_orchestration_context_active`: Returns a boolean indicating if the execution is in an active context.
    - `surveilr_orchestration_context_session_id`: Gets the active session ID, which is the latest session still in progress and does not have a corresponding `surveilr_orch_completed` state.

4. **Session Management**
  When an orchestratio session is started through the command line, it inserts a record into `orchestration_session_state` with the `from_state` column set to `surveilr_orch_init` and the `to_state` filed to`surveilr_orch _progress`, indicating the session is in progress.
  Upon completion of execution, a new record is inserted, rather than updating the previous record, with `to_state` colums set to `surveilr_orch_completed`, marking the session as complete.

5. **Logging**
      Feature: `orchestration_session_log` Table
      Description: Adds a new table orch_session_log to log entries with the following columns:
      ```sql
      category: TEXT
      content: TEXT NOT NULL
      sibling_order: NUMERIC
      parent_id: ULID
      elaboration: JSON
      ```

## Assets
Please find the release [here](https://github.com/opsfolio/releases.opsfolio.com/releases/tag/0.10.1).