---
title: Releases
description: Release notes for Resource Surveillance v0.24.0
sidebar:
  label: v0.24.0
---
Release notes for Resource Surveillance (`surveilr`) 0.24.0

## What's New
---

### 1. **New SQLite Functions: `eval` and `define`**

- **`eval` Function**: 
  The `eval` function allows you to execute a SQL statement dynamically and return the result as a string. This is particularly useful for generating and executing SQL on the fly, such as when constructing complex queries programmatically.

  **Example Usage**:
  
  The following example uses `eval` to dynamically generate a `CREATE UNIQUE INDEX` statement based on the columns of a table:

  ```sql
  SELECT eval(
    WITH columns_cte AS (
      SELECT name AS column_name
      FROM pragma_table_info('xyz_csv')
    )
    SELECT 'CREATE UNIQUE INDEX unique_xyz_csv ON xyz_csv(' ||
           GROUP_CONCAT(column_name, ', ') ||
           ');' AS create_index_sql
    FROM columns_cte
  );
  ```
  In this example, the eval function generates a SQL statement that creates a unique index for all columns of the table xyz_csv, then executes the statement.

- **define Function:** The `define` function allows you to register custom SQL functions in SQLite. You provide a function name and its definition, and this function is then available for use in future queries.


---

## Bug Fixes
### 1. Orchestration Functions Now Available in `surveilr shell`
 - Fixed an issue where orchestration-related functions were not accessible within the `surveilr shell` command. These functions are now available and can be used without restrictions.

### 2. Extensive Logging Mode Added to surveilr shell
 - Introduced an extensive logging mode in `surveilr shell`. This mode provides detailed logs of operations, similar to orchestration.

## Assets
Please find the release [here](https://github.com/opsfolio/releases.opsfolio.com/releases/tag/0.24.0).