---
title: Releases
description: Release notes for Resource Surveillance v0.30.0
sidebar:
  label: v0.30.0
---
Release notes for Resource Surveillance (`surveilr`) 0.30.0

## What's New
---

### 1. `surveilr_markdown_ast` and `surveilr_markdown_uri_ast` Functions

- **`surveilr_markdown_ast(content_text, selector, selector, ...)`**:
    - A new function that accepts a markdown content text value and returns a JSON string of the Markdown AST (Abstract Syntax Tree).
  
- **`surveilr_markdown_uri_ast(uri)`**:
    - Another function that fetches markdown content from a given URL and returns its AST in JSON format.

### 2. Surveilr Shell: Support for `.sqlr` Files

- Added support for new file types in `surveilr shell` (and `orchestrate`) to extend its functionality for SQL execution:
  
  - **`.sqlr` ("recursive SQL" static files)**:
      - Standard SQL file types that the `surveilr shell` recognizes as "recursive SQL."
  
  - **`.sqlr.*` ("recursive SQL" executables)**:
      - Executable files that behave similarly to `.sqlr` files but run dynamically.
      - The result of the first execution, which emits more SQL, is captured and executed recursively (at depth 1) for dynamic use cases.

- **Extensive Logging**:
    - Added extensive logging for `.sqlr` executions unless `--no-observability` is passed in as a flag to disable observability.

### 3. New Virtual Table: `console_table_physical_stat`

- Added a new virtual table `console_table_physical_stat` to SQLite, allowing the capture and query of physical database statistics in our Rust application.
  
- **Key Metrics**:
    - The table exposes crucial database metrics using SQLite pragmas, such as:
      - Table name (`table_name`)
      - Size in bytes (`size_bytes`)
      - Total number of rows (`total_rows`)
      - Total number of columns (`total_columns`)
      - Page count (`page_count`)
      - Used pages (`used_pages`)
      - Freelist pages (`freelist_pages`)
      - Payload and metadata bytes (`payload_bytes`, `metadata_bytes`)
      - B-tree depth (`btree_depth`)
      - Unused bytes (`unused_bytes`, `unused_bytes_index_pages`, `unused_bytes_primary_pages`, `unused_bytes_overflow_pages`)
      - Non-sequential pages (`non_sequential_pages`)
      - Overflow entries and pages (`overflow_entries`, `overflow_pages_used`)
      - Autovacuum pages (`autovacuum_pages`)
      - Number of indices (`num_indices`, `num_defined_indices`, `num_implied_indices`)

### 4. Observability and Debugging

- Enhanced logging and observability features have been added to improve troubleshooting and analysis.
  - The system captures detailed logs for recursive SQL operations.
  - These logs are suppressed if the `--no-observability` flag is used.

---  

## Assets
Please find the release [here](https://github.com/opsfolio/releases.opsfolio.com/releases/tag/0.30.0).