---
title: Releases
description: Release notes for Resource Surveillance v0.9.9
sidebar:
  label: v0.9.9
  order: 1
---

Release notes for Resource Surveillance (`surveilr`) 0.9.9

## Bug Fixes
- Fixed an issue where the default `--status` argument was set to unread instead of read. Emails can now be properly filtered based on the specified status.

## What's New
- Added support for multiple filters when ingesting content from email boxes through IMAP. Users can now filter messages based on the following criteria:
  - `--subject`: Filter messages that contain the specified string in the SUBJECT field.
  - `--cc`: Filter messages that contain the specified string in the CC field.
  - `--bcc`: Filter messages containing the specified BCC field string.
  - `--filter-text`: Messages that contain the specified string in the header or body of the message.
  - `--from`: Filter messages that contain the specified string in the FROM field.
  - `--to`: Filter messages that contain the specified string in the TO field.
  - `--sent-on`: Messages whose [RFC-2822] Date: header (disregarding time and timezone) is within the specified date. Note: the format must be like: 1-Feb-1994. Check this RFC (https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2822) for more details.
- **Note**: When multiple filters (e.g., `--to`, `--cc`, `--bcc`, `--subject`, `--sent-on`, and `--status`) are specified, the application will return only the messages that match all of the specified filters. This means that the result will be the intersection of all messages that individually match each filter criterion. In simpler terms, only messages that satisfy all specified filter conditions will be included in the result.

## Assets
Please find the release [here](https://github.com/opsfolio/releases.opsfolio.com/releases/tag/0.9.9).